Senior Project Test Plan:
Prepared By: 
Samuel Wade 11/16/20

TABLE OF CONTENTS (TOC)

1.0 INTRODUCTION

2.0 OBJECTIVES AND TASKS
2.1 Objectives
2.2 Tasks

3.0 SCOPE

4.0 Testing Strategy
4.1 Unit Testing
4.2 Function Testing

5.0 Hardware Requirements

6.0 Environment Requirements
6.1 Main Frame
6.2 Workstation

7.0 Test Schedule

8.0 Control Procedures

9.0 Features to Be Tested

10.0 Features Not to Be Tested

11.0 Resources/Roles & Responsibilities

12.0 Schedules

14.0 Dependencies

15.0 Risks/Assumptions

16.0 Tools

17.0 Approvals

Note: This Test Plan is provided as a PDF. For maximum flexibility, consider using a web-based test management tool like TestRail to develop your test plans.

Let’s explore each field in detail!!

1.0 INTRODUCTION

It is a brief summary of the product that is being tested. Outline all the functions at a high level.

2.0 OBJECTIVES AND TASKS

2.1 Objectives
Describe the objectives supported by the Master Test Plan, For Example, defining tasks and responsibilities, a vehicle for communication, a document to be used as a service level agreement, etc.

2.2 Tasks
List all the tasks identified by this Test Plan, i.e., testing, post-testing, problem reporting, etc.

3.0 SCOPE

General: This section describes what is being tested, which is new to all the functions of a specific product, its existing interfaces, integration of all functions, etc.

Tactics: List here about how you will accomplish the items that you have listed in the “Scope” section.

For Example, if you have mentioned that you will be testing the existing interfaces, what would be the procedures that you would follow to notify the key people to represent their respective areas, as well as allotting time in their schedule for assisting you in accomplishing your activity?

4.0 TESTING STRATEGY

Describe the overall approach to testing. For each major group of features or feature combinations, specify the approach which will ensure that these feature groups are adequately tested.

Specify the major activities, techniques, and tools which are used to test the designated groups of features.

The approach should be described with sufficient details to permit the identification of the major testing tasks and estimation of the time required to do each one.

4.1 Unit Testing

Definition: Specify the minimum degree of comprehensiveness desired. Identify the techniques which will be used to judge the comprehensiveness of the testing effort (For Example, determining which statements have been executed at least once).

Specify any additional completion criteria (For Example, error frequency). The techniques to be used to trace requirements should be specified.

Participants: List the names of the individuals/departments who would be responsible for Unit Testing.

Methodology: Describe how unit testing will be conducted. Who will write the test scripts for Unit Testing, what would be the sequence of events of Unit Testing and how will the testing activity take place?

4.2 System and Integration Testing

Definition: List what is your understanding of System Testing and Integration Testing for your project.

Participants: Who will be conducting System and Integration Testing on your project? List the individuals who will be responsible for this activity.

Methodology: Describe how System & Integration testing will be conducted. Who will write the test scripts for Unit Testing, what would be the sequence of events of System & Integration Testing, and how will the testing activity take place?

4.3 Performance and Stress Testing

Definition: List what is your understanding of Stress Testing for your project.

Participants: Who will be conducting Stress Testing on your project? List the individuals who will be responsible for this activity.

Methodology: Describe how Performance & Stress Testing will be conducted. Who will write the test scripts for testing, what would be the sequence of events for Performance & Stress Testing, and how will the testing activity take place?

4.4 User Acceptance Testing

Definition: The purpose of the acceptance test is to confirm that the system is ready for operational use. During the Acceptance Test, end-users (customers) of the system compare the system to its initial requirements.

Participants: Who will be responsible for User Acceptance Testing? List the name of the individuals and their responsibility.

Methodology: Describe how User Acceptance testing will be conducted. Who will write the test scripts for testing, what would be the sequence of events of User Acceptance Testing, and how will the testing activity take place?

4.5 Batch Testing

4.6 Automated Regression Testing

Definition: Regression testing is the selective retesting of a system or a component to verify that the modifications have not caused unintended effects and that system or component still works as specified in the requirements.

4.7 Beta Testing

5.0 HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS
Computers
Modems

6.0 ENVIRONMENT REQUIREMENTS

6.1 Main Frame
Specify both the necessary and desired properties of the test environment.

The specification should contain the physical characteristics of the facilities, including the hardware, the communications, and system software, the mode of usage (For Example, stand-alone), and any other software or supplies that are required to support the test.

Also, specify the level of security that must be provided for the test facility, system software, and proprietary components such as software, data, and hardware.

Identify the special test tools that are required. Identify any other testing needs (For Example, publications or office space). Identify the source of all needs which are not currently available to your group.

6.2 Workstation

7.0 TEST SCHEDULE

Include all test milestones identified in the Software Project Schedule as well as all item transmittal events.

Define any additional test milestones required. Estimate the time required to do each testing task. Specify the schedule for each testing task and test milestone. For each testing resource (that is, facilities, tools, and staff), specify its periods of use.

8.0 CONTROL PROCEDURES

Problem Reporting
Document the procedures to be followed when an incident is encountered during the testing process. If a standard form is going to be used, attach a blank copy as an “Appendix” to the Test Plan.

In the event that you are using an automated incident logging system, write those procedures.

Change Requests
Document the process of modifications to the software. Identify who will sign off on the changes and what would be the criteria for including the changes to the current product.

If the changes will affect the existing programs, then these modules need to be identified.

9.0 FEATURES TO BE TESTED

Identify all the software features and combinations of the software features that will be tested.

10.0 FEATURES NOT TO BE TESTED

Identify all the features and significant combinations of features that will not be tested along with the reasons.

11.0 RESOURCES/ROLES & RESPONSIBILITIES

Specify the staff members who are involved in the Test Project and what are their roles going to be (For Example, Mary Brown (User) compile Test Cases for Acceptance Testing).

Identify the groups responsible for managing, designing, preparing, executing, and resolving the test activities as well as related issues.

Also, identify the groups responsible for providing the test environment. These groups may include developers, testers, operations staff, testing services, etc.

12.0 SCHEDULES

Major Deliverables: Identify the deliverable documents. You can list the following documents:

    Test Plan
    Test Cases
    Test Incident Reports
    Test Summary Reports

13.0 SIGNIFICANTLY IMPACTED DEPARTMENTS (SIDs)

Department/Business Area Bus. Manager Tester(s)

14.0 DEPENDENCIES

Identify significant constraints on testing, such as test-item availability, testing-resource availability, and deadlines.

15.0 RISKS/ASSUMPTIONS

Identify the high-risk assumptions of the test plan. Specify contingency plans for each (For Example, delay in delivery of test items might require increased night shift scheduling to meet the delivery date).

16.0 TOOLS
List the Automation tools that you are going to use. Also, list the Bug tracking tool here.

17.0 APPROVALS

Specify the names and titles of all the persons who must approve this plan. Provide space for the signatures and dates.

Name (In Capital Letters) Signature Date:

1.
